# Guide
This guide provides detailed information about Ghost Optimizer, explaining what it does, how to use it safely, and how each tweak affects your system.

# Why optimize Windows?
Windows is made to work on any kind of hardware and for any kind of user. This means that it puts usability and stability first, but it also has a lot of extra features, ads, services, and compatibility layers that not every user needs. Even though Windows is well optimized, it gets heavier with each update, and mid to low end PCs start to feel the effects. Ghost Optimizer doesn't try to "fix" Windows. Instead, it optimizes it by turning off features and services that aren't being used, blocking most telemetry, and changing system values to prioritize performance, and privacy.

# Troubleshooting & Notes
Do not minimize or move the CMD window while Ghost Optimizer is running, as this can cause the script to stop unexpectedly for some reason.
Do not close the CMD window while creating a restore point.

## Script not opening?
- Antivirus issues: Add the script to your antivirus allowed/whitelist.
- Permissions: Right-click the script and choose Run as Administrator.
- Terminal run: Open CMD or PowerShell and run the script there to see any error messages.
- Windows Update: Make sure your system is fully updated, as ongoing updates may undo some tweaks.
- Reboot system: Restart your PC to fix general issues.
- Corrupted script: Delete the script and download it again.

## What NextDNS (Ghost Optimizer Profile) does?
- Encrypted, no logs and no data collection.
- Blocks malware and phishing domains.
- Avoid unauthorized use of your devices to mine cryptocurrencies.
- Prevent attackers from taking control of your local devices.
- Blocks malicious domains that impersonate other domains.
- Blocks domains generated by domain generation algorithms (DGAs).
- Blocking List: NextDNS ads/trackers block, Adguard filters and OISD.
- OS trackers block: Windows, iOS/MacOS, OneUi, MIUI/HyperOS.
- Block undercover third-party trackers
- Allow affiliate links and tracking (can hide your ip sometimes)